This is a simple guide by 1nf1deL about how to set up a headless raspberry pi
where the built in NIC uses an ad-hoc connection to your phone/computer while 
the add-on NIC will be used for monitor mode or wifi cracking.

First configure your pi to auto login when powered on. This means you won't need to
use a monitor or keyboard and can control your pi on the go by simply turning it on:

Edit the /etc/lightdm/light-dm.conf file
by uncommenting #autologin-user = root  and #autologin-user-timeout = 0. Remember there
are two entries of each of the lines. Also configure the /etc/pam.d/lightdm-autologin by
adding three pound signs to the middle line:
# Allow access without authentication
###auth required pam_succeed_if.so user != root quiet_success
auth required pam_permit.so

Now we need to enable ad-hoc networking for the integrated NIC which would be wlan0.
It is important to make a copy of the original /etc/network/interfaces file so you have
a reference in case you want to go back to normal networking. You could just keep the
default settings commented out with a # on each line in the interfaces file
or copy the whole file as a reference. It's your choice:

to enable ad-hoc connection we edited the /etc/network/interfaces config. We made a copy of
the original in the /etc/network/ directory called interfaces.org. We updated interfaces
to contain ad-hoc settings:
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
address 192.168.1.2 #set this IP to whatever you want your pi to be
netmask 255.255.255.0
wireless-channel 1
wireless-essid raspberry #this will be the name of the wifi network the pi broadcasts
wireless-mode ad-hoc. 

When you connect to the raspberry pi network, there is no DHCP server installed on the pi
by default. This means you either have to find a dhcp server to install (which is a bitch)
or just manually configure your laptop/phone with a static ip in the 192.168.1.x range.  

To configure the other NIC wireless card to monitor mode, plug it in. Then check to see
if it is recognized by running the iwconfig (shows wireless interfaces). If not, try
restarting with the wireless card plugged in. Once it shows up, run the airmon-ng 
command in a terminal. It will list your available wireless adapters. wlan0 should be
the default which is in ad-hoc mode, and wlan1 should be the new network card for monitor
mode. To enable monitor mode, type the command airmon-ng check, this command checks
for potential proccesses running that could interfere with monitor mode. After running
the check, type airmon-ng check kill, which kills those processes.

!!! You may get an error on raspberry pi where airmon-ng check kill can't kill the
processes. To get around this kill these there processes manually:
service network-manager stop
service avahi-daemon stop
service upstart-udev-bridge-stop
Remember these because you may have to start them back up after disabling monitor mode.

From there, type airmon-ng start wlan1, this turns your wireless adapter to monitor mode.
If you type iwconfig again, you will see that your wlan1 has been renamed to wlan1mon.
Basically, airmon-ng has created a new interface for monitor mode.  

Run the command wireshark to start wireshark and start collecting packets from the wlan1
interface. 




To exit monitor mode for wlan1, type airmon-ng stop wlan0mon.
Don't forget to restart the network manager with
service network-manager start
(and possible those other processes you killed manually)
